.TH GETMAXMODE 3 "11 AUGUST 2003" libgraph-1.x.x "SDL-libgraph API"
.SH NAME
getmaxmode - find maximum available video mode
.br
getmoderange - find range of valid video modes

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS \fRC function :
.B "#include <graphics.h>"
.LP
.BI "int getmaxmode (void);"
.br
.BI "void getmoderange (int " graphdriver ", int *" lomode ", int *"himode ");"
.SS \fRScheme procedure :
	(\fBgetmaxmode\fR)
.br
	(\fBgetmoderange\fR \fIgraphdriver lomode himode\fR)

	
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBgetmaxmode()\fR lets you find out the maximum mode number for the currently loaded driver, directly from the driver.

The minimum mode is \fI0\fR. In the current implementation of libgraph this function always returns \fIVGA1024\fR.

\fBgetmoderange()\fR gets the range of valid graphics modes for the given graphics driver.

For a complete description of available modes and ranges see \fBgrconstants\fR(7).

.SS Arguments :
.br
\fIgraphdriver\fR -- If \fIgraphdriver\fR == -1, \fBgetmoderange()\fR gets the currently loaded driver modes. If \fIgraphdriver\fR specifies an invalid graphics driver, both \fI*lomode\fR and \fI*himode\fR are set to -1
.LP
\fIlomode\fR -- Points to location where lowest permissible mode value is returned.
.LP
\fIhimode\fR -- Points to location where highest permissible mode value is returned.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.br
\fBgetmaxmode()\fR returns the maximum mode number for the current driver.
.br
\fBgetmoderange()\fR does not return.


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBlibgraph\fR(7),    \fBinitgraph\fR(3),     \fBgrconstants\fR(3)
